---
layout: post
title: "Rebecca's Recap for the week of Nov. 2"
author: 
  name: '@rebeccasloane'
  url: 'https://rebeccasloane.github.io'
categories: ['fall2020']
---

I have finally made it to the part of the semester where I get to read everyone’s blogs and see how everyone else has held up during the semester. 

I wasn’t planning on choosing a blog recap so late in the semester, but I am very happy to have done so.

I took the time to look over the initial posts from my classmates, and can I just say how happy I am to see that other people were confused about the fact that we would be creating our own things from scratch.

But to see all of the different blogs with their unique styles, formats, or even the personalities that show through is utterly making me very proud of us as a class.



This week in ENGL 460, we had a reading over audience: what it is, the different types, and how it will affect our final projects.

I think that from the get go, Dr. Pilsch has intended for the students in this course to be able to create something that we can grow with and possibly show future employers.

That is why the meaning of an audience is so highly important to each of us as we create our final projects.



I think that Taylor boasted excellent advice to all of us in this course.



---

>It’s important to write what people want to read. Whether you want to provide factual >information or give personal accounts of your own life, there is a good chance there will
>be a crowd for you out there somewhere. The key is to stay consistent with your
>content to make sure it attracts your niche of readers and doesn’t turn them away with
>a sudden change. ---Taylor

---



I think that most of us in this course are used to being able to write whatever and have some critique over what we write, but it isn’t being actively judged because our professor or other classmates may not be your real audience if your works were to get published.

For this project, we have the opportunity to truly create something for a specific audience.

One of the best pieces of advice that I’ve had is to write, create, and publish something that you yourself would be interested in exploring.

It is easier to do research on subjects that you yourself are interested in.



What I also loved about being able to do my blog recap this week, is that some people have been able to share what they would like to do for their final project, at least some ideas.

I think that there are a lot of my classmates that know exactly what they would like to do, but feel as though they will not be able to achieve that.

---

>Originally I thought that I could create this super sophisticated site that would maybe score me
>some points in a job interview. Although that just is not my style. I want to create something fun
>and full of life that people can say “this is the silliest most goofy thing ever but it makes me
>happy”. I’m not sure if this will be a game or a generator or what.. I guess you’ll just have to
>stick around to find out. ---Murphy

---



I would have to agree with Murphy. 

I thought that I would originally want to create something very smooth and sleek so that I could show off my skills to a future employer.

Now that I have taken the time to think about this project there are really no boundaries with what we are allowed to create.

To some of us the ability to be able to create whatever is a breath of fresh air.

For others, like me, that can be the scariest thing in the world to try to magically have an amazing idea to publish.



Ultimately, this project is for a college class.

It is an opportunity to be able to explore different areas that we are interested in while also tuning our website building skills. The person that is ultimately going to be judging this project knows who we are, and understands that we recently have picked up these skills.



Audience will only mean something once we truly introduce it to the world.

Even then, those judgments that our audiences will have are not necessarily coming as professional criticisms.

We are creating for an audience that is like us and has the same passion as us. 

Any other negative viewer can go kiss you know what. 



---

>And that’s on periodt.

<https://giphy.com/gifs/H83SIIQqoxU9FQVfTv/html5>

---
